Hey, Chris.
Hey there.
How are you doing?
How's it going?
I'm well.
How are you?
Oh, good.
Good to hear it.
I'm happy to have you back on the show.
So welcome back.
Welcome back.
Thank you.
Yeah.
Last time we had you on the show, you're part of the panel around Datastar, and that was cool.
Now we're going to talk about event sourcing, but we'll find a way to tie it back to Datastar just a bit, I think.
I see it on the horizon or in the show notes.
Sounds good.
One of these.
Yeah.
Well, not everyone listens to every episode.
We've got new listeners coming all the time.
So give us the quick intro.
Who are you, Chris?
Who am I?
Let's see.
I am a Python developer for about 20 years and a longtime listener to the show.
So it's a very big privilege to be on, finally, my own self.
And by the way, great job continuing going, Michael.
You're constantly putting out great content.
So I really appreciate all your work.
But as far as me, I learned the program as an adult.
A friend suggested I learn Python.
I hitched my wagon to this engine, and I've loved it ever since.
I was a technical coach for a little while.
I started the Python group here in Richmond, Virginia, PyRVA.
So if you're local, come out.
In fact, we're just two weeks away from the next meeting.
Awesome.
How frequently do you have meetings?
once a month now in fact if you look behind me you can see all these blue dots are the meetings so
okay excellent keep planning what are some of the kind of topics you all have
oh man we range uh pretty much whatever people we can figure out that people are interested in um we've had a number of ai discussions in fact those have been really powerful we've kind of
lined up the chairs in a big circle and just have a discussion and it's really incredible you know
you have people on the whole spectrum of opinions about AI.
So, yeah, it was very, very, that was one of my favorite, I was going to say episodes, one of my favorite meetings.
I think we might bookend this podcast episode with a little AI at the start, a little AI at the end.
Sounds good.
Cool.
So, yeah, people will just go attend that.
and I guess probably a meetup.com is where they find you.
It is, yeah.
And you can go to pyrva.org to get to the meetup page either way.
Yeah, easiest way because you can find a lot of crazy stuff.
You probably find people with pet pythons that want to meet up in Virginia as well and it's not the same thing.
Indeed, yeah.
Thankfully, and we are, gosh, over 10 years old so we are one of the first ones to pop up just because of age, I think, sometimes.
Although, honestly, some of the newer ones pop up ahead of us sometimes.
too so you know yeah it's it's such a contentious topic this ai stuff you know talking about your meetup how did that go were people frustrated people excited like yeah it was a kind of the
whole spectrum you know i felt like it was great because everybody respected each other and there were i'd say two people on each anchored on each of the sides you know two people who actually
I think maybe there are three people who have bought their own hardware and are really going deep into AI and, you know, encouraging people to like really dig into it.
And we had two people who were very AI skeptic and very, you know, worried about the environment, you know, all sorts of different things.
And so that was a very healthy, very good discussion.
You know, I walked away with a healthier respect for both sides.
Some ideas that I incorporated into my work, especially now that the company I work for gives us a mandate to use AI to write every piece of code.
So that's been a very fascinating transition for me.
But it also gives me a little bit of agency or a little bit of permission to experiment and see what to do, how to actually function in this new paradigm.
It is engineering.
And we'll talk about it more later.
But it's quite wild that your company's – that is the position.
I don't necessarily think it's the wrong position.
I think it might be the right one, but it's, I think it's got to be brought on from a, from a, this is a skill you need to learn, not just throw stuff at the chat bot and now that's
your job. Like these are not the same things, you know, but I think a lot of people do, especially when they're getting started, treat them as the same thing and then say it doesn't
work and then they're frustrated. Totally. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Hi. Hi. More of that.
I could speak further about certain things, but yes, I agree.
Absolutely. Absolutely. All right.
Well, we'll come back to that and get there.
But let's talk about a little bit of this event sourcing thing.
Yeah.
What exactly is event sourcing?
That's a question. Okay, cool.
I wasn't sure if you had more. I saw your...
No, no.
When you reached out and said, hey, let's talk about this.
So let's take a step back.
Okay.
design patterns, refactoring ideas, like all of these architecture.
I love to talk about this stuff.
I love to think about this stuff.
I think also maybe that's a why one of the reasons I'm not super frustrated with the AI things, cause I will tell it, I want you to use, like you could say like, I want to build a system with event sourcing and it's going to work with this way.
Like for me, the fun is like, oh, I got to build some of the event source and it clicks together with this and it does that.
And like, yeah, I didn't have to do all the little checks and details and like the file IO, but whatever.
I can skip that and build just like think a little bit bigger, a little more big building blocks.
So I'm a big fan of design patterns and paying attention to what you're doing.
I can tell that you are too.
Yes, especially event sourcing, I would say.
So I have been following the topic of event sourcing for over a decade.
I listened to a podcast with a couple of developers in the PHP realm, and they were talking about event sourcing, and it just inspired me.
Specifically, the things that I really love, before I was a programmer, I was a graphic designer.
And so creating websites with exceptional user experiences is something that just makes me excited.
And at the time I was working at a creative agency building websites that would just get slower and slower and slower the more data we put into it.
Or the more we configure the routing or the navigation and whatnot.
And so the thought of never having a slow page load again was intoxicating to me.
However, that was in a portion of my career where I had so much imposter syndrome, having learned to program in as an adult.
And I just felt like I couldn't suggest to my lead developer we should lean into this.
And even when I was a lead developer, I just didn't feel confident that I could lead a whole team into a redesign of the code.
But a couple of years ago, I got laid off.
And I was like, you know what?
I've been wanting to explore event sourcing for 10 years.
I'm going to do it.
And it turns out it was a lot easier than I thought.
But anyway, all this to say, let me define event sourcing since I've kind of danced around it.
Event sourcing has to do with how you save data to the database.
The best way to contrast it is most apps are kind of CRUD based.
So you create a table-- like let's say you're a shopping cart application.
you have a table called carts, and you have a bunch of columns.
And one of the columns has data for the product IDs that are in the cart.
And so if you have that kind of situation, and you have one user who adds five items to the cart, then removes two, and then checks out.
And then you have another user who adds just three items to the cart and checks out.
Well, if they check out at the same time and you look at the two database rows, they are very similar.
They're the same user, basically.
They get put in the same cohort from your marketing side, right?
Yeah.
Both of them checked out exactly the same products.
And if you look at the database, you'd have no idea that one of them removed two items from their shopping cart.
So event sourcing, so the reason that is, is because CRUD-based applications will mutate state in the database to ensure it's always up to date with the current state
and optimized for data integrity.
Event sourcing, on the other hand, captures every change that happens within the system.
So you would have an event of cart created, item added to cart.
You'd have five item added to cart events and two removals.
And so you could have the whole history of how each user interacts with your system in database.
That is essentially the core of event sourcing.
Everything else is actually adding more design patterns onto event sourcing, which is really wonderful.
But that is what event sourcing is.
Right. So your database sort of becomes almost an audit log.
It feels very source control-ish.
It feels like Git, right?
Like what you store is the file and then the diff, then the diff, then the diff.
You get back to the file by running all the operations on it potentially.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah, that's exactly what it is.
And it's funny because like, I don't know about you, but like when I first heard about this, I'm like, well, isn't it slower?
Because it just seems like you're doing so much more work.
Every time you're updating the cart, you're pulling out all the events from the event store and building up the state of where it's at right now and saying, okay, does that item exist in the cart?
Can I remove it?
Okay, let's remove it.
And it turns out computers are fast.
And so it's negligibly slower depending on the query.
Yeah.
So I saw you and Bob Belderbos talking about this on YouTube.
And that was one of my first thoughts too, was like, this is super cool, but it kind of sounds a lot slower to answer questions.
Yeah.
And I think, but then I thought about it and I thought, I think there's actually a decent amount of stuff that you can do to make it quite a bit faster, right?
So let me throw some ideas out to you and then you tell me how they land as somebody who's actually done this stuff.
First of all, back to your comment on computers are fast.
Computers are so fast.
They're so much faster than people realize how fast they are.
And databases are fast too.
If you put indexes on them, then they're so much faster.
I just don't understand how websites are slow.
It's just, it's not just, oh, I'm a little frustrated.
It's like, how is it possible that somebody built this and accepted that it takes three seconds to load this page and yet they do and you just know that it's most likely that there's not a database index somewhere
or maybe on an extreme situation there should be better caching but it's just like so like when done right you're right it's absolutely blazes right yeah absolutely but
how you could make it faster so a couple of thoughts that came to mind one was I have three so one is you could have a operational database which has
for a particular user it might have the five ads two removals and that's their shopping cart and the way you get that is either you query it and then code you add it up or you do some kind of aggregation thing that says get all these things and then somehow plus minus
them together right yeah probably in the shopping cart feels like you probably need to actually pull them back.
But still, you could do that super quick and then just run that bit of code.
And every time you make a change, you could also write that to a second table, second database that doesn't have the-- it just has the current state.
I just have three for that user shopping cart.
That sounds OK to me, but it's-- I mean, databases hate duplication.
That's like kind of their third normal form job.
Do databases hate duplication?
Or is it people that don't like it?
Yeah, that's fair.
That's fair.
I mean, they were built to avoid duplication, right?
So in that sense.
But another possibility would just be something like Valkey.
I could have said Redis, but I'm a fan of Valkey over Redis.
I find this is a little bit nicer project.
Are you familiar with Valkey?
I am not, and I'm taking notes mentally right now.
Yeah, here we go.
So Valkey, if I find its repository, which is hiding down here, it describes itself-- where does it describe itself?
So a fork of the open source Redis project, right before the transition to their new source available, but not open source models.
So if you have, say, the Redis Python library, you just tell it that it talks to this endpoint, this IP address and port, and it thinks it's Redis.
but it's more open source friendly.
I'm going to star it for the world.
And it's got 26,000 stars.
So it's pretty popular.
Not that it's totally really relevant exactly which version this is, but just having a cache that has that information of what is-- shopping cart is three, period.
And put something-- just put two pieces in place.
One, when you do a query, first you check the cache.
If it's not there, you get the playback, you compute it, and you put it in the cache.
And if you make any change to that thing, then you invalidate the cache.
Those two things would give you basically seamless, ephemeral answers to the questions that if you ask them very often, you get super quick responses.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
And then the other one is, I always find these extra caching servers are honestly not necessary.
We already talked about FAST.
So I'm a big fan of disk cache, which I had Vincent Warmerdom on to talk about.
And disk cache is awesome.
So you could just have a local file store on your Docker image or volume or whatever.
Then you get the same thing, but you don't have to have the infrastructure.
There's different options.
So basically, I guess, to sum this up, I'll throw it to you now.
Operational database that also has the answers or some kind of caching story.
It could be in memory.
It could be a server key.
It could be the disk cache, whatever.
What do you think about those?
Are you guys exploring them?
I am exploring two, essentially, I guess you could say all three in a way.
I'm experimenting with NATs to do kind of the, I guess, Redis kind of side of it.
But all that to say is all three are viable options depending on your use case.
The first thing is just the event store itself.
So getting the current state of any individual item should not take, you know, essentially should take milliseconds if that long.
So there are two people that I kind of, who are my North Star for all of my event sourcing knowledge.
They are Martin Dilger and Adam Dimitriak.
And Martin wrote a book called Understanding Event Sourcing, which was huge to helping me go from somebody who created an event sourcing project to adopting event sourcing as my kind of default strategy.
And in the book, he mentioned that he will tend to use the event store for essentially, like, if you start hitting 2,000 events in a stream, then he'll think about optimizing it, you know, changing, going to one of the alternate approaches that we just mentioned.
So, like, that's really impressive.
He uses Java or one of the Java derivative languages.
So chances are it's slower in Python.
And so you need, you know, that we need to adjust that number for Python.
But honestly, we should have shorter event streams anyway.
2000 seems like a lot.
It does.
Seems like a lot.
And so kind of the first fallback for me would be the, what Martin and Adam call the read model, which is essentially one way you can make a read model would be the database backed read model,
where you have code that subscribes to only the events it cares about.
And so whenever an event comes in, it'll incrementally update that database cache or your file cache or Redis cache or whatever.
And then I guess the third thing that I appreciate is using Redis or, in my case, Nats, is like when you have a front end, a very high frequency, high updating web UI
or something that you want to really make sure that the user has up-to-date information, I would lean towards that, having ways to push down to the client.
Okay.
Yeah, anytime you've got a live stream, it seems perfect, right?
Yeah.
Yeah, absolutely.
Yeah, I mean, hook up some JavaScript or hook in some textual or whatever it is you're trying to do and just say, or just write, you know, arbitrary web sockets or service and events and just say, when this changes, send me the Delta
and then we'll adjust.
Yeah.
Which is pretty, pretty nice.
So there's a book that you recommended by one of the guys you mentioned, Martin Dilger.
Yeah.
Tell people about that real quick.
This is incredible to me.
He realized he needs, there was a gap.
One of the biggest problems with event sourcing is that the material is sometimes, there's gaps in where there's good material.
And because event sourcing came out of the domain-driven design community, there's a lot of jargon that you have to kind of get through.
They do like their jargon in the DDD space.
They really do.
And once you understand it, it makes perfect sense.
But yeah, getting onboarded does take...
context working and then off the races yeah exactly and so uh martin um essentially saw this gap in
in knowledge and was like i need to fill this with an ebook and i can't remember i want to say in like two months he wrote this thing and it's so amazing because it introduces uh the way that the two of
them work like they both independently kind of came to similar conclusions which is to use event sourcing as your base, but to also leverage two other or one main other, whatever, a couple
other patterns, vertical slice architecture, CQRS, which is kind of that idea of like having those read models ready to, you know, optimized for you to download and use.
And then using a documentation technique called event modeling diagrams.
And that is a huge key too, because as someone who has been on a couple of teams to do the event-driven transition to try to really help do more asynchronously, you need to have a good communication pattern
to keep everybody up to date on what does what.
And I find that all three, especially the event modeling diagram, they have refined this to make it simpler and simpler and simpler to the point where there's really just a few elements put together and you can understand the whole life cycle of an application.
Yeah, cool.
I'll link to the book over on Amazon.
You know, before we carry on, I thought of another sort of optimized scenario.
What about a document database like Mongo?
Yeah.
Your top-level elements are just like the computed fields like total lifetime value or cart value or cart item count, but then have maybe a cart item events,
which could be a nested list of rich mini documents that are like item added, item added, timestamp, value, category, and actually storing them in the same record.
Yeah.
I haven't tried that, but I think it's a really interesting approach.
I actually use a document database as my Firestore.
as my as my event store um and i haven't really kind of dug into like kind of the optimizations i could do um but i find it curious because like the i mean what you're suggesting is slightly
different than how i think about it because it sounds like you have like a like a better word a model that you're storing all of its events in as well and some of the neat there's some of the
it's kind of inside out of what the real design pattern is right well it's not so much that as
As much as one thing that I have found interesting is, you know, since this came out of the domain driven design group, everything is about an aggregate, what they call aggregate.
Many people call it a model.
And so you, you know, set up boundaries of this is your shopping cart and these are the events that modify the shopping cart.
What has been a new movement in event sourcing is to essentially be model less, is to like focus on the events themselves because they are so flexible.
And so many times we as developers can kind of create boundaries around what we think are the models.
But the models change.
Yeah.
And coupling is like the hardest thing to work.
context, as I would say, actually changes because the problem you're solving might change and the
models don't match. Exactly. Yeah. Yeah. So all that to say is I don't, not that I want to especially say like, I don't think that that's a bad idea. I think it could be really fascinating. especially as like a secondary approach because, you know, well, whatever,
you know, like I, one of the things I really find fascinating about this, this is such a flexible pattern that people, I mean, they've done so many different ways of optimizing for
their event store or anything like this. So I think that's very much a valid approach.
It's, the reason that came to mind is you can atomically update documents. And therefore, you could atomically update both the computed value and the series of events as a single action,
which is interesting, you know? Yeah, absolutely. Very interesting.
And that one thing becomes the source of truth for what you're tracking.
There might be something there.
But it does sound a little bit too focused on the model, I do think.
It's worth experimenting with, for sure.
Yep.
So just to throw out a little street cred there, look at this.
Purchased April 18, 2005 for Domain Driven Design by Eric Evans.
So this is kind of the greater space, right?
Maybe the book is called Domain Driven Design, Tackling the Complexity in the Heart of Software.
It's pretty interesting.
I think it's kind of the follow-on of the refactoring movement that Martin Fowler and all those folks were working on, like in the late 90s, early 2000s.
Kind of in that space, right?
Yeah.
I must say I haven't bought that book.
The closest I've come is the Cosmic Python book or the Architecture Patterns in Python book that harvey and oh i always forget the other guy's name but that's such an amazing book so that's
closest i've found the ddd okay cool cool cool there's a a video i think i think you gave me this video right events forcing football yeah and this looks like foosball type football not
american football it's kind of i love american football but i do believe it's slightly misnamed Like you don't use your feet that much other than the red part.
Yeah.
True that.
I mean, it's like calling like formula one, like foot car.
Cause you make the car go with your foot, but I guess not really the main thing of the sport anyway.
Yeah.
But yeah, I love this video.
Okay.
Tell me about it.
I'll put it in the show notes.
Yeah.
This is, you know, like I feel like event sourcing, it's like one of those things where it's hard to explain until you get it.
And then I feel like it's like a good board game.
You know, if you have a board game fan in your life, they're like, oh, this is such a great board game.
It's so simple.
And then they start explaining it.
And like half an hour later, you're like, are we ever going to actually play this?
I don't know that I want to anymore.
But I felt like this person has done a really good job of kind of really distilling it down and showing like why it matters.
And it's a 10 minute video, you know, five minutes at 2X.
And it's really kind of charming.
Really good.
Okay, cool.
Yeah, yeah, I'll put it on there.
Can you watch videos at 2X?
are you one of those people yeah gosh my daughter does that i'm like how do you actually take it in
i just i'm a one expert person do slow it down or rewind to to pull in things but yeah i see it's
like a like a seek and then focus sort of exactly exactly uh not that one this one i also heard There's this ebook I can get. What's up with this?
Yeah. So scheduling this podcast episode, I didn't know what we're going to talk about.
I know there's going to be things I forget.
And I feel like part of the reason I am so excited about this is I know that there's someone like me, the 10-year-ago version of me, who has heard about these things and is curious, but just needs more information.
And so I've spent the last couple of weeks creating this ebook and I put the first version up and I'm gonna continue to improve it as time goes on.
So if anything in this conversation is interesting to you and you just need a little bit more and you wanna understand a little bit more what's going on, absolutely download it.
And it's free, so why not?
- Yeah, cool.
And then we'll have to make you do an audio version, put that on Audible or something like that.
- Sounds good, yeah, sure.
I always want to do audiobooks for stuff that I'm working on.
But just the concept of trying to speak code or config file, I just like, OK, I've got to stop.
It's a tough balance to do with audiobooks and tech, like developer stuff, but still.
For sure.
Yeah, cool.
All right, so people can check that out.
It's for free.
I'll put that in the show notes.
Now, I think that this both has really positive-- really big possibilities for data science, but also potential challenges. Let me throw it out to you and
then you you take us through it. Super benefits, incredibly obvious, you have an event stream that tells you over time, what times the things happened. You have both additions and
subtractions or the permutations that it goes through until it ends up in its final state, not just show me all the customers from California who bought this month, but like show me all the Californians who abandoned the cart but then came back and then did the, you know what I mean?
Like, you can just answer way more interesting questions. You got time series. On the other hand, maybe I just want to load up a pandas data frame with the answers of what's the average cart size
during checkout. And that becomes like a big computation out of an event source-based database.
if you don't have one of the things we-- OK, let's hear it.
Let's hear it.
I'm going to say, if you don't do one of those caching or multi-database things or the QRS-- I don't remember the pattern.
Anyway, that looks like it maybe is a little bit of a challenge.
You could do it-- I think you could do it more easily in Pandas.
But maybe I just-- some people do data science just through SQL.
And they just-- I'm just going to write queries against a warehouse database.
Yeah, absolutely.
Why not have it both ways?
For example, on my, okay, so let's start.
For the hardcore data scientists, actually, you know, I don't even think the event store is the right format for them.
I would definitely have some kind of script that would run on some kind of loop that, you know, maybe every day or every couple hours or whatever would transform the raw events into some format that would be great for.
Sure. And you hear about all these like OLAP cubes and all these other like super BI type of systems.
None of those, I can't say none of those.
Many of those are not running out of the operational database.
They're like some kind of like warehouse data lake.
We've transformed this so you answer questions.
So it's not necessarily just event sourcing.
Like we just want to avoid five joins so we can just ask the question directly, right?
Yeah. Yeah.
And in fact, my current project that I have in production at work, it is a service that multiple other services use to process items.
And the project manager of one of these services reached out to me and said that they have a big query table that has all this analytical information.
And they wanted to add the information we have to theirs.
And so, you know, we set up a conversation.
I created the code.
And every day I'm sending information to their BigQuery instance.
And three days after we did a go live, I created a meeting to kind of circle back with them to make sure everything's working the way they wanted.
And when they opened up the BigQuery database, they were shocked because they were expecting three days worth of data.
I had I set every piece of data I had for months, which was how long they've been sending things to my service.
And so, like, I was just, you know, this person was elated because they were like, they knew their data scientists wanted this information.
And now they have all this information going back to day one, so to speak.
And also just recently, my boss asked me, like, I have a reports view that's just a web page that has, like, stats on how my surface is doing.
And he's like, it'd be nice to have, like, a table of some of these, you know, last few days or whatever.
And I was like, okay, how many days would you like?
And he's like, 30 days.
So I created the HTML.
It was pretty easy.
And I just created a script to pull the events out of the event store and populate this table exactly as we needed.
It went into production live.
And we were immediately there with 30 days of history.
It was so exciting.
And this is what I get to experience every week is having the ability to go back into history and answer questions that we've had that we didn't even think we knew.
We didn't have any idea that we would want to know a month ago.
And to be able to answer those questions with precision is intoxicating.
Yeah.
I certainly see the value.
You don't necessarily know the questions you're going to ask.
And if you don't have enough data or you don't store it in the right way, you literally can't answer them.
Yeah.
Right?
But it sounds like with eventsourcing, you can go back and like, well, what if we ask this over time instead of by region?
like okay slightly different query no problem exactly yeah yeah it's it's really quite something
i had no idea like my i kind of mentioned earlier my biggest thing was i was i can't wait to have fast UI and now that i realized that i feel like our applications obviously serve the primary
purpose of whatever it is that the business needs but i didn't realize how much there was a secondary need of understanding how it works and enabling the business to make decisions based on how
customers are actually using the application. We're going to talk about the AI side later, but I do just want to throw out as different constituents who might care to answer these
questions, like I was just thinking you've got the operational side of say the website or app or driving an API for the app or something like that. That's one view. That's kind of the traditional
view but now you have this much more increasingly popular view of like data scientists and bi tools and the ceo wants a dashboard that updates live type you know so events are a clear trigger
for those kind of things right absolutely but then also you might ask your ai opus or codex or whatever hey find me some trends or let's look at this and you know
it has more to work with as well right yeah just seeing the different constituencies yeah
totally um in fact just today i was uh looking into a bug that was happening in production and i asked claude hey can you query the gcp logs can you query the event store and help me understand
what's going on and it was like sure enough here you go and made made fixing the bug much easier
Yeah, I guess you know why.
You have more granularity on if the thing in the database doesn't look like you expected, you have a much more granular way of knowing it was this step that made it look like that.
Because I've had problems before where I completely upgraded, swapped out the data access layer for Talk Python training for the courses.
And for the website, it was perfect.
Everything was great.
But under certain circumstances on Android, the app was resulting in something.
It was sitting in something that would make the data not right.
Right?
Like there was some field that was null instead of just taking on the default value, which is fine.
But then when the person logged in on the website, the website didn't assume that that thing could be null because it was at a minimum had a non-nullable default value.
I'm like, why do we need to check this for null?
Like it should, how did it get to be null?
It makes no sense.
It took forever to figure that out.
Oh, wow.
But with events we're seeing, you could see this was the event that made it null.
Not just it is null.
What in the world is going on?
Why could it, how could it possibly be null?
Yeah, absolutely.
So I think it's got some interesting debugging sides.
And one more thing, like I know this is not quite the data science side, but another constituency could be PCI, HIPAA, GDPR,
like all the compliance frameworks you got to deal with or auditing or sort of audit trail or something that happens.
I mean, a lot of times logs serve that value, but that might be a, they updated the record, like, to what?
Yeah, totally.
Yeah.
And even though I've been in insurance and I've been in healthcare, I haven't had anything where I have to certify these things, but like you've, the audit log is the way you interact with everything.
It is the source of truth.
And so, but what's funny is I have worked on teams that created history tables to try to essentially do that work.
And it was like two or three months after I started working there before I learned that that table existed.
And so there were two or three months of work I should have been putting in history table that I didn't.
And from what I hear among other developers, a lot of teams work that way.
Like only a few people really know and understand how to maintain that history table.
And a lot of times, like when they try to replay it, it just doesn't work.
And it's unfortunate.
MARK MANDEL: Yeah, it's like, well, there is history in the history table.
But when we run it again, we don't get the same output as the final database.
What's going on?
JOHN MUELLER: Yeah, true.
Yeah, but with the event sourcing, it reverses it.
Basically, the events are the source of truth.
And the other one is some kind of dynamically generated sort of deal, yeah?
Yeah, yeah.
And it's a lot like a backup strategy.
If you never test your backup strategy, you don't really have.
You don't have backups.
Exactly.
And I feel like it's the same thing with the history table.
And honestly, to be totally honest, event sourcing is similar in that it's easy to accidentally migrate event versions.
know, like for myself, I was working on a new event to kind of, you know, on my app and I introduced a new attribute or actually, I guess it was a full, whatever the point being is,
at some point I decided I wanted to change the name of the attribute because it would reflect better what it meant in the domain and not realizing that I had already published that event to production. And so at one point I was, I don't know, I don't remember what I was doing,
looking up issues or honestly, it might have been a view that it was rendering that was supposed to before was throwing errors. And I couldn't understand why. And I looked at it and sure enough, it was because I accidentally created a different version of the same event. Thankfully,
all I had to do was change the code to say, well, if this attribute doesn't exist, look for this attribute and everything was fixed. But, you know, you can honestly fall into some of those things with event sourcing too, if you're not careful. But, the nice thing is because the
events are still there, you have the ability to recover from them.
Let's talk about versioning for a little bit.
Sure.
On a sort of operational third normal form type of database, you might run a migration.
It's one of the reasons I really like using MongoDBs because I almost never have to run migrations, but that's a different debate.
However, you might run the migration to say, OK, we're going to add a column, or we're going to split this data apart and move this stuff over here and that over there, and then create a foreign key relationship or whatever.
But I can see if you've got this kind of history of things.
Like, let's say-- I don't know.
How do you deal with versioning?
I've got these old events.
And the way you're not storing the current state.
So with a migration or something like that, let's just transform the current state into the new state.
With these, you've got old events and new events, and they might be, in a real way, incompatible.
Yeah.
Yeah, sure.
What do you think about with that?
You have so many strategies.
You just have to choose which one works for your situation.
So the first one is kind of what I mentioned just a minute ago, kind of like the MongoDB, or actually the Document Database way of working with things, where if you're adding things to an event, adding fields,
then if you know if the code you know most code will be blissfully ignorant that you're adding new attributes to it so it doesn't really matter and then those that do care can kind of have
fallbacks and the way that um adam and martin suggest uh you essentially have like upcasters or uh some kind of code that essentially says like okay the previous version actually that's
two different things. I'm sorry. The code that does care about the new attribute, if it encounters an older event that doesn't have that attribute, then you can have a default fallback. And it's best to have those close to the domain logic that you want to update. This is a vertical slice
architecture approach, as opposed to having a global upcaster. Again, I said upcaster, I realized that I want to keep going to the upcasting, which is the second option that I've been trying to get
to. So essentially, one is to have a default fallback. Second one is to have an upcaster that okay you know especially if they're two different versions like truly different versions of the
event you know you have add to shopping or item added and item added version two you know you might have completely different fields it's good to have a piece of code that can you know upcast
to the second one um those are the you put that in your like your data access layer it might write a thing that say give me all the items of the cart and it it looks at the type or the version flag and then does a little processing or would you rewrite the database?
Oh, well, I was going to say that's your third option.
So let me take a step back and ask your last question, which was like at least to me, what you're doing with your events is essentially rebuilding state.
And so wherever you're in that loop to rebuild the state, you would probably say like, oh, is it this event or is it this event or whatever?
Behave this way.
Right there.
Like in my story of using one of the data caches.
Yeah.
You do a request.
It's not in the cache.
So you've got to run your build it up code and put it in the cache.
And that part right there would be the part that goes, okay, we're going to transform it differently now.
And then we'll still store the answer in the cache.
And the next time they ask, it's just fast.
Yeah.
So, yeah, you would have, the way I would code it is you'd have a piece of code that's listening into the events.
So it knows about the old version of the event and the new version of the event.
and it knows what format that data needs to be in in that Redis cache or whatever it was that you suggested.
Yeah, Valkey, come on, Valkey.
Let's go, Valkey.
I'm going to remember this by the end of the conversation.
So yeah, so what it does is it will be able to say like, okay, this event is an old one, but I can upcast it to a new one and convert it into the format or however we need to save it to Valkey.
And then if it's a new one, it also knows, okay, I'm going to convert it this way to save to Valkey.
So it's nice that it's kind of localized to, you know, the process that you need to update upcast.
And then we touched on like kind of the quote unquote nuclear option, which is to apply a transform to your entire event store.
And so you would, by doing that, you would create a new database, new database table, which would be your new event store.
And you, for each event, you just copy it over, do some kind of map or transform to upcast the entire, your entire history.
Yeah.
I see values, value in all of them.
You know, if you're doing a lot of direct SQL data science-y stuff, you probably want to transform the database.
If it's primarily coming out of an API, like just let that thing handle it as it reads them, you know.
Computers are fast. Keep it in mind.
Indeed. And I forgot to mention that, oh, his name escapes me right now.
The guy who popularized event sourcing back in the 2000s wrote a book on this topic specifically.
So he kind of listed out all of your strategies and when you would want to choose them and why.
Are we talking Martin Dilger or someone else?
Greg Young.
Okay.
I think it's on LeanPub.
Yeah, that sounds about right.
In fact, Martin Dilger's book is cheaper on LeanPub as well, and you git additional content there too.
Okay.
Yeah, very interesting.
Let's make this a little bit concrete for people.
Sure.
So we talked about how you might, in theory, architect some software, could be Python or something else, to follow these patterns.
But there is a Python library, right?
Yeah, absolutely.
Do you recommend it?
I do.
It's funny, I don't have any production code with it, but I have used it a lot over the years.
John Bywater has done an incredible job maintaining this repo and all the people who have contributed as well.
He has shepherded this through and has been really making it such an incredible application.
When I wrote my applications, you know, I the first one I did, I was like, I want to do it myself so I can understand it.
And so I can really understand and respect what he's done.
But also, you know, there's a part of me that really like a lot of the, you know, essentially I feel like it depends on who you are.
If you're somebody who wants to grab a framework and run with it, this is an exceptional one to do it with.
Essentially, you just write Python classes and you decorate them or subclass from some of his classes.
And all the magic of event sourcing happens for you.
And it just leaves you with really readable, understandable code.
And then you'll have other people who, you know, a lot of people in the event sourcing space says it's actually not that complicated.
You can write your own code to do it.
And I did.
And I recommend it for the right type of person.
For me, it was hard because there's so many decisions that you need to make.
And I am not the best Python programmer.
I do not know all the concurrency issues and all these things.
I'm getting to learn them more.
But, you know, I have software that's running in production that's doing well.
So all I have to say is, yeah, I highly recommend this package, especially if you're new to it.
It can really show you, you know, how one option of things can work And I love that by default it uses, well, you can use SQLite, Postgres,
or a couple of the databases that are optimized for event sourcing.
And so you can kind of see how it, you know, some of the many ways you can pattern things to make it easy for you.
Interesting.
So I probably need to file a PR or something here.
It says the way you get it is pip install event sourcing.
I feel like it should be UVPIP installment sourcing.
No, just kidding, but that's cool.
However, I am, so it's, you know, you can get it off PyPI, but I'm having a hard time resisting pressing this.
Ask DeepWiki.
What is DeepWiki?
Yeah.
It's an AI-powered document thing that he opted into, which I thought was very fascinating.
I was following, I was, at the time he did it, I think I was writing my own code, And so I had Slack open.
He has a good Slack channel and was showing all the things that he was able to, all the insights that was able to be gleaned from it.
This is epic.
I love it.
So the DeepWiki apparently is like, it knows the source and the docs.
And then it's just a chat.
And even on Fast, I asked, I said, give me an example using this library.
So sure, here's a complete example, a dog school application.
And all the code using event source, package? This is nuts.
SideQuest unlocked.
Must figure out how to get my packages into DeepWiki. This is nice.
I also want to add, he has other companion packages that, for example, connect into Django and I believe Flask and some other ones too.
One of my side projects, I'm leveraging this with Django and it's really cool because one of the things that it enables you to do is configure your events table to be similar to your,
I guess in the same database as your Django table, or at least configurable from the way Django would do it.
And yeah, so getting all these read models are very easy with all the migrations.
You just say, this is what I want my data to look like with Django.
And of course, apply migrations and there it is in production.
So that's really nice.
Yeah, cool.
It also has extension projects.
What are these?
The Django one.
the current DB, K-U-R-R-E-N-T.
I imagine current DB is probably a...
- I believe that is, yeah,
it's one of the first event sourcing specific databases.
I think it was called...
- It's for intelligent and responsive systems.
I don't know, Chris, I just got to rant a little bit.
Like there's all these projects that are cool and they do need stuff.
And now I feel when I go to them, that it's like, this is the AI compute data frame, or this is the AI, the intelligent AI.
It's like, it's just a database or just a data frame that AIs can use.
That doesn't make it an AI data frame.
But they all want to capture the excitement.
It drives me crazy.
Yeah.
And what's worse is when they don't even say exactly what they do.
It is your answer for AI-ing the thing that we're not going to tell you.
I hate it.
Yeah.
Yeah, exactly.
And it just obscures what the heck it is.
But it's the H1 and the H2.
You're like, oh, my gosh.
Yeah.
Okay.
But that does look pretty interesting.
Yeah, look, it's example is create a client, new event data, new UUID, et cetera, order place, serialize.
So right here, this example is basically it's got a primary key, a category or type of event, like just an event, I guess is the way you would call it.
But then it has JSON serialized, like a JSON blob that is the details of the event.
Is this how you typically do it?
Or is it more column oriented where like this one has an order ID and a total.
So you might have an order ID and a total in the data structure or is it in a blob level?
Yeah.
The implementations I've seen generally will have some kind of blob or JSON serialized or bytecode serialized optimization of it.
Because each event, when you're saving things to the database, you know you're going to save an event.
It's going to have an event stream.
It's going to have, generally speaking, there's probably an event version.
There's all these specific things, but the actual payload of the event.
If there's not an event version, you're going to wish there was an event version at some point, probably.
Exactly, yes.
And so the payload is usually some kind of blob or JSON body or something like that.
That sounds very good to be a document database.
Indeed, yeah.
yeah because you can put indexes on like the sub items and then if they're not in that event it just doesn't use the index for those particular ones i mean it's a lot of things yeah yeah exactly
it's pretty sweet yeah and and again well i haven't said it quite but like one of the things i was have been thinking about for a decade is the more i kind of thought about it
the event sourcing event sourcing and the patterns and unlocks really gives you so much flexibility you know you can you can use document data stores and and like really take those the power of that
you know if you have um and part of this is too is just data you know vertical slicing or whatever it's both multiple patterns put together but like you know if you have a view that would be so much
better served by having a a graph query a graph database then use it you know it's um i remember at one time it took me a while but like uh somebody told me that they were using um i can't remember
uh their their open query is that what it's called the um i forgot the old name of what i'm trying to think of but essentially it's um
you know like a database that optimizes for saving text so you can like search uh yeah um you know they use that as just for one, you know, to serve the purpose of one item.
And honestly, this isn't unique to event sourcing.
You can do this with event-driven architecture as well.
But what I love about event sourcing is like you have the benefits of event-driven architecture and the benefits of a monolith in one if you choose to go that way.
And yeah, it's just, it's, I guess really what it comes down to is what I love about it and was surprised by is how flexible it gives you the ability.
Yeah, in the book, it reminds me, one of my users was complaining about the status screen that I show for the users.
And he had all these great ideas.
And I was like, you know what?
I want to take advantage of that.
So I actually cloned the vertical slice for that view and created a new database column or collection to power that view.
And we iterated and iterated to make this thing better.
And with each iteration, sometimes I needed to change how the read model reacted to events.
And so I could just blow away the read model, regenerate it from events.
And we ended up with something really great.
So that when it was time to go live, I just changed which, where the URL went, pointed to the new one and was able to delete the old code and delete the database table.
And it was wonderful.
That's cool.
Yeah.
It just gives you so much flexibility to do whatever you need.
So a couple more I guess one more really relevant thing two more things to give a shout out with this event sourcing. There's event sourcing Django which is Python package for it with Django. Imagine that probably somehow it upgrades with the ORM. Don't know.
But also event sourcing SQLAlchemy which is kind of cool. So if you use SQLAlchemy yeah, very nice.
Alright, so this stuff is great but I imagine that it has times you should use it maybe more and times you should go well square peg round hole maybe not this time sure
yeah what do you think for me i feel like it's usually the way i think about first is because most people are very comfortable with not using event sourcing right and so i usually answer it
the opposite way which is when should you sure exactly the two biggest the best pieces of
advice that I heard over the last decade was, number one, use it. A good opportunity to use it is if you have a database column called status. Because if you have a column-lead status, then
that means that one item can be in multiple different statuses, right? Different states.
And if you're having different states, each state's behave different in some way or form.
And so you are definitely not dealing with true CRUD create, read, update, delete patterns.
and so event sourcing would be a great option for that.
The second piece of advice is, are you ever concerned about losing data?
Because by default, event sourcing does not.
And what it enables you to do is choose when to lose data, right?
Because you don't have to keep every event around forever.
You can just say like after 90 days, let's just put it to cold storage or just delete it, you know, it depends.
Yeah, exactly.
Out in the audience, Mike says, I'm scared of the physical storage requirements of this potentially.
I guess it depends how many data, how many events make up a final state in your system.
Like a cart checkout, big deal?
No, probably not.
Like, if used as an app log, that might be a problem.
Yeah.
Most, I'll say models, will have maybe a dozen events, maybe two.
Depends on your, obviously, depends on your domain.
But ideally, you will keep your events short.
And they have practices called closing the books.
where you will use events in your domain to kind of keep it short.
So like, you know, for example, a store will want to know their revenue across the entire year, but every night they shut down, they get their cash registers or if they still have cash registers, and they kind of reconcile how much money they made that day.
And so, you know, kind of keeping your event stream short really helps.
So if you're going to go back, you would just say, well, we'll just read the daily summary and then add today's events.
or something like to get the final output, something like that.
Yeah, unless you want to go all the way back to day one, in which case you can read and say like, okay, it all depends on how you want to do it, right?
Again, the flexibility side of it, because you could just like say start from today and read forward, or you can start from today and say, okay, what was the event stream before this and read that and keep going back to the originating.
And I think you put up Mike's comment that said, I'm afraid of the physical storage requirements.
And it's like, that is the trade-off.
There is, it will take more space.
But thankfully, storage space is the cheapest commodity in all of online or in today's world.
And- Most expensive is memory and then compute and then storage and then bandwidth and then storage.
I think that's probably the breakdown, right?
Yeah, I think so.
That's why things like disk cache are awesome versus like another thing that's just in a memory cache, but another process, right?
Exactly.
Yeah.
And having the ability to say, like, you know, like my current application, I have not yet deleted any events, but truly, like, the only reason we have events older than even a week are just for analytical purposes and just me understanding how our system works.
And so I'm planning to make a way to offload that event or those events.
And a lot of people just put them straight to cold storage, you know, just so that they always have a backup just in case.
but chances are they rarely ever use it.
Sure.
And one other thing I did want to add is to answer your question, when not to use event sourcing.
Yes, exactly.
Would be essentially like, so let's say you don't care about losing data.
There are just a number of just simple applications that are truly crud, right?
Like I've worked on a number of these where they're just forms over data.
That's exactly the term I was thinking, forms over data.
Define that for people.
they don't know. Yeah. It's essentially something where like in my case, when, when the first ones I worked on is like, you have a webpage that almost exactly mirrors the database table that you're saving the data to, you know, maybe it's a contact form. who knows what it could be?
You know, the idea is like, there is so the web UI or whatever you're building is just an easy way to get data into the database. And chances are you don't have status field. You don't have
all these different ways of different rules for how things behave. And in fact, in my event source application, I have a model that is not event sourced. It is truly a crud model. And so just
by saying, you know, adopting event sourcing doesn't mean you have to do it for everything.
You can use it for even just a small bit of your project, especially if you want to try it out and
see how it's going to be. That's a really good point. It's not an all or nothing sort of thing because you have a properly factored data access layer and you're not doing that inside of your GINJA template, are you?
No?
Right.
Not even in your view, but you've got just an opaque layer of actions.
Some of those actions can be driven by events.
Some of those actions can just be straight crud, create, read, update, delete, for those who don't know.
One of the people who inspired me to really dig into event sourcing, He has a line of business that, well, he'll go to a company who is struggling because their database schema is holding them back.
You know, for whatever decision they made, they cannot, they're having such a hard problem, hard time creating a new feature because of their database schema.
So he goes in, teaches them event sourcing, and uses the event sourcing event store to publish both the dream schema that they wish they would have and the old schema.
And they live side by side.
And once the features are complete, they'll put it up and they'll start slowly migrating traffic over to the new event source version.
And eventually they can delete the old database table or database.
And most of the teams he's worked with have kept with the event source version and gone on from there.
How interesting.
Yeah.
Oh, and then finally, one other thing I want to mention too is when not to use is it's up to your teammates.
Because, you know, I am sold.
I think this is such an incredible pattern.
It is just unlocking so much joy again and so much flexibility, as I've said before, that I cannot imagine having to go back.
That said, if I join a new team and my team members are like, I don't know, I'm going to go with them.
Yeah.
One thing is to not use an optimal pattern.
What's worse is to try to use an optimal pattern but have nobody else want to do it.
and then they work around it.
And, you know, it sounds a little similar to, like, people who don't want to do unit testing.
So some of the people write the unit test and they set up CI/CD that will fail if the unit tests fail.
But then the other people will check and work without running the test at all.
And then they break it.
And you're like, what are you doing?
Like, well, I don't want to run these crappy tests.
You're like, well, now the whole CI/CD is not just not helpful.
It's inhibiting me working because you won't even, you know what I mean?
It's just like, ugh.
And it seems like you do need a certain level of buy-in for this to make sense.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
And maybe they should listen to this podcast.
And maybe you create an example of one feature in an event-sourced way so they can see some of the benefits.
But, you know.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Like your partial example, indeed.
Yeah.
All right.
We're getting short on time here, Chris.
But let's talk this AI flow.
first of all let's circle back to your comment of like um the your company having a mandate to use ai like what what the heck is going on here how is this received and how are you receiving it
and also tell us are you actually writing you know make shipping more features and be more productive or not like what give us your assessment as much as you're willing to share like you don't
off to like secrets whatever yeah yeah i will i will um hide certain uh things but to say names
and places have been changed to uh protect us and emotions and conversations with multiple other
people um i would say at times i am so much more productive at times it has brought down the um
the production, you know? so it is a mixed case. I see that Mike in the chat said it's an overconfident intern and I'm like 110%, like this is exactly what it is.
Very smart intern. It is. Oh, absolutely. Very confident. Oh, well, he said that. Yeah.
Overconfident. and I find this fascinating because my production app is actually three services in one mono repo. And I'm responsible for one. And, you know, a couple other people are
responsible for the other ones, but, you know, we're all interacting. And so my, when I need to change something on my code, you know, and I'm required to use Claude Code, I say, this is what
I need to do. And generally, it does a really great job. And I think a lot of this has to do with the vertical slice architecture. Because vertical slices only hold code that is responsible for one
feature. And so that really fits very nice into a context window. Yeah. It doesn't have to scan
200,000 lines and a hundred files. It looks at five. Yeah. And it knows event sourcing. So it
knows, okay, I'm subscribing to events. These are the events. I know where they are, you know, all these different things. when I work on one of the other services, it takes a lot more
context to understand the state of the code. And I really have to work harder to do, to do what I need to do in those parts of the code base.
Yeah, so it's been a very interesting experiment.
And additionally, kind of when I am-- I had to curb this, but when I have been more productive is creating Git work trees.
So it's like I have a kind of main repo that I work out of.
And if I have a feature that I'm looking at the code base, I'm like, oh-- or the web app or the logs.
And I'm like, oh, it'd be good to optimize this.
then I create a new work tree and set cloud up in there and get it working on a thing.
And so I have found that I can only, I need to limit myself to two or three work trees because any more than that, I start losing context.
And now I know what the LLM is.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, exactly.
If you overdo it, it's, you just send off five agents and don't look like that's how you end up.
It's like, oh, we have kind of like bugs in our code about architecture.
It's like, well, if you never look at it, it's like we got this super energetic, super smart intern kicked them off and said, go on that feature.
But they need guidance, right?
All the tests are passing because I changed all the tests to pass.
I know.
The problematic data has been removed from the database.
It works now.
Why is it empty?
Back to your backup comments.
Honestly, I'm having an insane amount of productivity with Claude Code and with AI and stuff.
But it's an engineering skill.
It is not just, let's fire it up and ask for it.
One of the things I'm doing lately that I'm really appreciating is going through a planning session, which I know a lot of people do that and talk about it.
And now, if you have the GitHub CLI installed, just the GH thing, you can tell it, hey, instead of just running this plan, create a GitHub issue of this plan.
Write all the details in GitHub.
And then your next comment can be, let's work on issue 127.
And it'll go work on it when it gets done.
Like, let's make a retrospective comment on the issue.
Let's create a PR that closes that issue.
There's some really interesting team dynamics that you can put in there that, you know, talking to a chat box is not covered.
But if you know what to ask for.
Yeah, I'm really inspired by Martin and Adam because both of them in one way or another have, let me take a step back.
I mentioned the event modeling diagram.
It is a visual diagram that really has a reduced visual language.
And what was mind-blowing to us a couple years ago was that AI understands it.
And so the fact that you can essentially say, like, here's the diagram.
Can you implement the slice?
And it can get you from – well, let me take a step back.
Martin and Adam have both had successful research spikes where they took an event modeling diagram.
Actually, no, what they did even worse was they started with a conversation with a client and recorded it.
Then generated the diagram.
Generated the diagram.
Wow.
And then generated code from the diagram that didn't solve everything, but got it, I think, 80 or 85% of the way there in hours from, you know, like cutting months of work down to weeks is impressive.
And I've had some similar, you know, I'm still working on my personal one because, like, I just, you know, after work, I just tend to shut down my computers and I'm not, like, dedicated to, like, really going at it.
But I've found some really incredible benefits of doing something like that.
Yeah, that's awesome.
I created this open source project.
I mean, it's more source open, whatever.
It's not really a project.
But I call it Python package guides for agents.
And all the projects that I work on, I'll go and download the source and the documentation.
So if I'm working on disk cache, I'll literally clone it, clone the documentation, and then make Claude write a super detailed-- not use their documentation or its old version, but have it legit.
Write down examples, study the source code, study the documentation.
Source code trumps documentation because if the docs are out of date and so on.
And then I'll drop, if I'm using two of these maybe data classes and disk cache, I'll drop those things into my project and tell Claude about them.
And that's a pretty neat thing to do as well.
But I want to leave this portion of our conversation with an incredible joke.
Okay.
Just because I feel like this has to be said right now.
It's just so...
The joke says the word copilot.
It could be Claude.
It could be Codex.
It could be chat, whatever.
Like, just AI, right?
Friends outside of tech.
Lol, copilot is dumb.
Friends in tech.
I just bought iodine tablets, and I've made an offer in land upstate.
My supplies of antibiotics and potable water are sufficient, but I need to set up for the hydroponics to make it through the first few years.
Like, I feel like that's where we are, you know?
Yeah, yeah, totally.
Totally.
And that maybe also sums up your meetup as well.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, absolutely.
It's quite a spectrum, both of friends outside tech and inside tech.
Yeah, exactly.
It's more like believers and non-believers.
I'm not really sure.
But all right, final call to action.
What do we got here?
People are interested.
They want to get started.
What do you tell them?
Get your e-book, your free e-book that you put up?
That's right.
Yeah.
So my website is everydaysuperpowers.dev.
If you want an ebook that kind of introduces you into event sourcing and kind of gives you kind of this, this kind of fundamental background and a couple other things go to everyday superpowers.dev slash es intro.
And it'll take you right there.
I'm on Mastodon mostly, but I'm also watch blue sky and sometimes X underscore Chris May on all of those.
With Mastodon, I think I'm on fosstodon.org.
What else?
I mentioned Everyday Superpowers.
So that's, I also have a Discord from there too.
So if you go through my website, you can see how you can join that.
Yeah.
Sweet.
Maybe check out the event sourcing library.
100%.
If they're Python people.
Yeah.
And if you, oh, oh, the, Martin and Adam have a podcast called the Event Modeling and Event Sourcing Podcast, which is verbosely named, but it also is really great.
You know, this is how I learn just from these great people, you know.
There you go.
Just kind of, almost every week talking about patterns they do and stuff like that.
They also talk about a bunch of other stuff that isn't relevant, but I've learned so much from listening to them.
And they also have Discord.
Cool.
I'm honestly impressed.
Like an entire podcast on a single design pattern.
Let's go.
That adds commitment to it.
Yeah.
And it's incredible.
I mean, as someone who has played the board game and really enjoys it, it's amazing.
Yeah.
Awesome.
Well, Chris, I really appreciate you coming on here and sharing all your experience and excitement and all the things.
Great to talk to you.
Likewise.
Thanks for having me.